---
layout: post
title: "Blog Post #6"
date: 2016-05-17 09:41:18
comments: true
description: "SQL"
keywords: ""
categories:
- welcome
tags:
- welcome
---

What is SQL:

The Structured Query Language (SQL) is the set of instructions used to interact with a relational database. In fact, SQL is the only language that most databases actually understand. Whenever you interact with such a database, the software translates your commands (whether they are mouse clicks or form entries) into SQL statement that the database knows how to interpret. SQL has three major components: the Data Manipulation Language (DML), the Data Definition Language (DDL), and the Data Control Language (DCL).

SQL is Everywhere:

As a user of any database-driven software program, you’re probably using SQL, even if you don’t know it. For example, a database-driven dynamic web page takes user input from forms and clicks and uses it to compose a SQL query that retrieves information from the database required to generate the next web page.
 
Consider the example of a simple online catalog with a search function. The search page might consist of a simple form containing only a text box where the user enters a search term and a search button. Upon clicking the button, the web server retrieves any records from the product database containing the search term and uses the results to create a web page specific to that user’s request. 

If a user is searching for products containing the term "Spoon", the web server might use the following SQL statement to retrieve related products:
SELECT *
FROM products
WHERE name LIKE '%Spoon%'
Translated, this command retrieves any records from the database table named "products" that contain the characters "Spoon" anywhere within the product name.


Another example of a common use for SQL are loginpages. Clicking login allows you to fill out a form which is then checked with the server for matching information, which will determine if you are allowed in to an account.

